# CS255

<b><i> Briefly summarize the DriverPass project. Who was the client? What type of system did they want you to design? </b></i>
<br> The DriverPass project revolved around a company that wanted to offer training and lessons to customers who wish to pass their driving exam at the DMV. The client was Liam, the owner of DriverPass, and Ian, the IT officer at DriverPass. They wanted a system that would allow customers to purchase one of three driving lesson packages, register for in-person driving lessons and DMV policy lessons, take online courses, and take practice tests. While the owner and IT officer work on the back end to manage customers, the customers will be able to interact with the DriverPass secretaries and instructors in order to arrange in-car lessons.

<b><i> What did you do particularly well? </b></i>
<br> This is honestly a difficult question to answer because I am not sure that I excelled at any part of this project in particular. I guess if there is a part of the project that I feel proud of, it is the diagrams that I made. They were far from perfect, but I took my time to work with the different types of UML charts and become more comfortable with them then I've been in previous courses. Now I see myself opening up Lucid Chart in the future and making charts simply because it is wise to do instead of waiting until I am instructed to do so for an assignment.

<b><i> If you could choose one part of your work on these documents to revise, what would you pick? How would you improve it? </b></i>
<br> I could choose one part of my work to revise, I would choose just about every part and see if there is anything more that I can add or remove to make the document itself more cohesive. I have a tendency to pour everything I know and/or learned into my work. Sometimes, it can be too much or it just does not connect very well. If I could go back, I would arrange for a third-party to spend a few minutes with my project and tell me if it is something that they were able to follow with some ease.

<b><i> How did you interpret the user’s needs and implement them into your system design? Why is it so important to consider the user’s needs when designing? </b></i>
<br> I interpreted the user's needs by taking notes on all the things they should be able to do in the DriverPass system. I then implemented them into my system design by using various diagrams to essentially paint a picture of what the developers would need to do to create a system based on the needs of the user. It is important to consider the user's needs when designing because they are the ones who will ultimately be using the system. Additionally, a poorly designed system will not only reflect poorly on DriverPass, but it will also reflect poorly on your company and team. Therefore, it is extremely important to deliver on promises requested by the client and build with care the system that they have in mind for their users.

<b><i> How do you approach designing software? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to analyze and design a system? </b></i>
<br> I approach designing software with notes. We all translate information in different ways; therefore, I feel it is important to take requests, translate them into notes that I understand, and then confirm post-notes that the way I understand the software is the way it is meant to be understood. In the future, I will rely on visual aids as much as I rely on written ones. A lot of times while working on use cases, activity diagrams, and class diagrams I realized that similar charts can be used in both my studies and personal life to organize things much beter. Another valuable strategy I will take with me is learning to translate system analyzation and design into layman terms. I was told in the past that if I cannot explain a topic to a five year old then I do not have a complete grasp of a concept myself. Knowing this, I want to take the things I learn and simplify them as much as possible to confirm that I do truly understand.
